Before using the Mongo driver,
let's take a look at some of the important classes that the driver has.
First, the MongoClient.
This is the base class that holds all the configurations
and manages a connection between the application and the MongoDB server.
Then you have the MongoDatabase and the
MongoCollection that represent a database and a collection.
Finally, the document which represents a MongoDB document.
We'll be using the Document class quite a lot,
especially to define query predicates and return documents back from the collection.
The first step in connecting to MongoDB is to create a MongoClient.
A MongoClient gets created using a URI.
MongoDriver also uses a URI to locate and connect to a MongoDB server.
This prefix tells MongoDB driver that we're connecting to MongoDB,
followed by the username and the password followed by
the server address and the port number followed by the database that we're connecting to.
Once obtaining a MongoClient,
we obtain a database object by calling getDatabase.
Finally, we create our collection using the createCollection method.
Once we have the collection object,
then we're free to work with it by creating documents,
updating them, and removing them if needed.
So over here, I'm creating a document
using the document object that is provided in the MongoDB driver.
I insert the document here,
and then once it inserted,
I get the object ID and store it for using in further queries below.
This first query translates,
replaces the document just inserted to include the gender field.
The next one updates the document to rename a field.
The last one does an absurd for a document that does not exist.
Let's run this code to see if all the operations complete successfully.
Looks like there are no errors in the logs.
Let's head to the MongoShell to check if everything looks good.
Let's do a find on the patient's collection and there you have it.
We have the two documents that the code just inserted and updated.
The MongoDB driver provides an API that is very similar to the MongoShell.
If you know the shell command,
you can very easily translate it to the Java driver.